# Kickstarting with Excel 
## Overview of the Project 
### The purpose of this project is to create multiple spreadsheets that utilizes familiarizing a large main excel sheet into samller excel sheets that provides a sample of data can be pulled and pieced together to analyze specific data of interet. Here, this task employs the use of pivot tables, formulas, filtering, and graphs to help produce the data of interest.
## Analysis and Challenges
### Chiefly, there are two sheets created from the main "Kickstater" sheet to provide an example of how analysis might done in excel. The "Theater Outcome by Launch Date" Uses Pivot Tables and Filtering to provide data about the outcome of all theater projects based on the lanch date. In this spreadsheet, a line chart is created that displays the outcomes of all theater projects (either successful, canceled, or failed) based on the month of the year. 
#### Noticble things that stand out from this sheet include that the month of Mat had the highest number of succesful theater projects at 111, followed closly by the next month of June with 100 succesful theater projects. Interestingly, the number of canceled theater projects were low in total (37), with the month of October seeing to canceled theater projects at all.
### The "Outcomes based on Goals" sheet is a new sheet that had new columns and corresponding rows that revolve around the "plays" subcategory of the theater category of projects. More specifically, this sheets tallies the number of plays based of thier status (successful, canceled, or failed) amd thier otcome goal range. A line table here shows relationships of the percentages of either, passed, failed, or canceled in correlation to thier outcome range
#### Surprisingly, no play productions were actually canceled. This would see the percentage of all the plays based on thier otcome range a 0%. Addititionally, if one were to notice the gold bar for the line graph for this sheet, this bar also shows displays no cancelation in play productions. 
### Noticlebe challgenges that were faced in the "Theater Outcome by launch date" sheet were making sure the pivot table had the correct items dragged in pivot chart field; a couple of iteration were mixed at match before the desired pivot chart was found. Most of my chalenges I faced arose from the "Outcomes Based on Goals" sheet. First. the function used to tally the total number of plays based of thier status and goal out involved precision in the formual filed. Hoveing over formaule would have excel display which fileds where being read by excel. Using this knowledge would help clean up the and extroplate all of the first three columns for this sheet. The fisrt iteration of the graph of this sheet has the x-axis not have the ranges of the outcomes not being disaplyed in the graph. Looking up my inqury through the interent would point answer my question to have the outcome ranged be placed as the tick counters on the x-axis.
## limtaions and possibilities
### A potential limitation I could see for this datasheet arises from the years the data was collected. Specifically, the years the data was collected stems from 2009 to 2017. In the long run, it would be staistically sound and impressive if we could keep gathering data for over 10 years and beyond. Going so many years beyond would give us more accurate numbers for the data that is not existent yet (for exmaple, we may finally see plays that are canceled, and thus, make better inferences about this data). The more data we collect, the stronger we can make inferences for things to see based of prevoius years. However, compiling this much data on a spreadsheet would ceratinly make excel computation longer and more tedious to undertake. Excel is a poweful tool, but there are more robust tools that exist that make gathering an uncountable amount of data easier to approuch to readers and the user to work on.
### With filtering, we could possibilly see which country has the highest amount raised for these projects. Specifically, we can find where the countries rank based of the gross total amount raised per country and perhaps the amount raised based on that country's gdp. The latter option require a deicated sheet that lists a specific countries gdp and other relevent data, but doing so would allow us to make a bar chart that shows which counties are raising enough money based of thier incomes. To be more precise, data like this would best also benefit in seeing a country's donation percantage per year in order to see increases and decreases in amounts raised. This unfornatly, would require many more columns/rows that must be recorded in excel. 
